10-data-science-capstone/dsc-slides.md, before:

Data Science Capstone Pitch
========================================================
author: YuXuan Tay

N-Gram Language Model
========================================================

- based on the n-grams obtained from blogs, news and Twitter sources
- texts were preprocessed to remove special characters, split into sentences before punctuations were removed
- the sentences were then tokenized into bigrams and trigrams which were then counted
- the n-grams were then split into leading words and suggestions, with counts for each suggestion normalised by leading words to compute probabilities
- n-grams with count of 1 and leading words with only 1 suggestion were treated as noise and removed
- these were all contained in 2 data frames separately for bigrams and trigrams

Prediction Algorithm
========================================================

- input text is cleaned in the similar manner as the sources were and the last 2 words are extracted
- the words are then used to search through data frames previously contructed to obtain suggestions
- the suggestion with the highest probability from both data frames is used
- in the event that no suggestion was obtained in the previous step, then the unigram with the highest probability is used
- unigram probabilities were computed by normalising the counts of unique leading words by suggestions from the bigrams obtained

My App
========================================================

https://kitdia.shinyapps.io/capstone

- intuitive and simple interface
- generates next-word prediction in short amount of time
- saves keystrokes for user

In the Pipeline
========================================================

- retain contractions in predictions (i.e. I'd, she's, etc.)
- extend ngram model to quadgram for better contextual prediction
- implement a more elegant backoff algorithm that incorporates information from all the levels of n-grams
- multiple word suggestions

The amount of self-learning required for this project, coupled with starting out in my new job,
has certainly made it quite challenging. Nonetheless, I enjoyed completing the Data Science Specialisation.
Hope it has been a great journey for you too!

Commit message:

data science capstone 2nd attempt

10-data-science-capstone/dsc-slides.md, after:

Data Science Capstone Pitch
========================================================
author: YuXuan Tay
date: Sunday, August 02, 2015

Prediction Model
========================================================

- based on the N-Gram Language Model on the [HC Corpora](http://www.corpora.heliohost.org/)
 - blogs, news and Twitter corpora of the English language
- preprocessing, such as sentence detection, punctuation removal and converting to lowercase were performed
- word splitting was then done, with sentence beginning, numbers and rare words (with counts <= 5) 
represented by special symbols, to create a vectors of words for each corpus
- n-grams of size up to 5 were generated by binding the word vector repeatedly
with index displaced
- n-grams were then counted and normalised into proportion based on the first (n-1) words of the n-gram
- packages such as `stringi` and `data.table` were used

Prediction Steps
========================================================

- input text is cleaned in the similar manner as the corpora and the last 5 words extracted
- predictions based on different n-gram sizes are obtained from each corpora
- prediction confidence are combined based on a smoothing function for different n-gram sizes
and based on preset weights for the different corpora
- previous step incorporates backoff automatically in the event only small n-grams can be found
- predicted words with top 5 confidence are presented as suggestions

My Shiny App
========================================================

https://yxtay.shinyapps.io/dsc-shiny
![Shiny App screenshot](dsc-shiny-sc.png "Screenshot of my word prediction Shiny app")

Features
========================================================

- suggestions displayed as buttons for user interaction
- user input text updates with user selected suggestion
- processing steps and prediction table presented to give hints of underlying steps
- normalised score gives idea of word prediction confidence
- adjustable corpus and ngram weights for advance users
